This morning.
the police released further information
regarding Sverre Olsen. the perpetrator
who killed Ellen Gjelten two weeks ago.
The deceased Olsen was the main suspect
in an ongoing investigation
concerning importation
of illegal firearms to Norway.
Agnes Sjølid. Chief of Police in Oslo.
says that they will continue working
on uncovering the criminal network that--
-What's that?
-Pork chops.
Something wrong with that?
Book of Leviticus.
No pork. no blood.
It shouldn't be that hard to remember.
You're sweaty.
I won't be able to work out tonight.
so I went for a bike ride up to Sognsvann.
Yeah?
What are those lumps?
It's a clean pot. isn't it? It should be.
What does it taste like?
Like iron.
What?
What the hell?
Flooding at Camilla's?
I…
I don't think
you should be here right now.
You know very fucking well
that I've been through this before.
And I'm not doing it again.
You and I had a deal.
If this were to happen. it would be over.
In that case.
I think you should leave now.
Isn't that what you do best?
What?
Talk to me.
We've got in a murder just now.
Need you at work.
I get that the thing with Ellen was hard.
It was hard for all of us. really.
but life must go on. Harry.
I can't keep covering for you.
You need to go to work.
This right here is work.
And I need you sober.
Fifth floor.
Been in a fight?
-Do you have any idea when…
-The Forensic team are on their way.
But she's not entirely cold yet.
or stiff. so I'm guessing--
She must have died around five.
Why?
Nothing suggests
that the body has been moved.
This means she was killed
on her way into the shower.
The robe and body are covering the drain.
I've talked to the janitor.
who said the shower was at full blast.
Small bathroom. Wouldn't take long
before it flooded down to the neighbors.
The neighbor says they discovered
the leak at exactly 5:20.
That's an hour ago.
And you were here 30 minutes ago.
That's good. Everyone's reacting quickly.
Well. not everyone.
I'll go to the janitor to see
if I can get the electricity back on.
I know. she smells strongly already.
It's the heat and the water.
No. it's not that.
I can't smell corpses anymore.
What are you thinking?
Black. clotted blood
around the entry wound.
Sooting of the skin from the gunshot.
The grayish discoloration suggests
close range. but not a contact shot.
Yes. I agree.
-Do you have any optics?
-Yes.
You okay?
Yeah. I'm…
Well. Hole…
Thirsty today?
The asymmetry in the sooting suggests
that the shooter was taller than her.
He aimed downwards at an angle.
No exit wound. the sooting…
I'm guessing this is
a short-barreled weapon.
Yeah. a pistol.
There are no signs of violence.
A small swelling in the right eye socket.
A wire cutter or a very sharp knife.
Have you found the finger?
-Nope.
-The pistol?
-No. not yet.
-No.
There is a lot of blood.
Her hand is in the water. so it stops
the blood from coagulating.
But all this blood
from just one severed finger?
That can only mean…
That her finger was severed
while her heart was still beating.
Yes. exactly.
He wanted her to be found.
That's why he left the shower running.
-Partner?
-I don't think so.
-No. Lovers?
-Lovers?
It's not like we're standing there.
listening at the door.
But you think that a lover did this?
No. I don't know.
No. I get that you don't know.
but those who live here
would like to know if this is personal.
or if we have
a raving lunatic killer running around.
Vibeke has a little anxiety.
Yes. you do.
I'm trying to teach her to live with it.
but you know that anxiety
is man's dizziness in the face of freedom.
And that existential angst.
it comes the moment man realizes
that he can do exactly as he wants.
Heidegger.
Sartre. Kirkegaard. No?
They didn't teach much philosophy
at the Police Academy?
-I don't have anxiety.
-Shush!
Sorry.
You may have a raving lunatic murderer
running up and down the stairway.
But statistically speaking.
it's more likely
it is someone she's had a relationship
with. someone she's rejected.
-Do you think that Camilla--
-I'm sorry. but this is completely absurd.
I mean. that conclusion of yours.
you know nothing about Camilla Loen.
No. that's right. I know nothing
about Camilla Loen.
Right. so why are you saying
what you're saying?
Because of a hundred years of statistics.
and because you asked.
So if you're done asking your questions.
maybe I can continue with mine?
Good.
Have you heard or seen
anyone else letting themselves in there?
Is it possible that there was
someone in there… already?
Who could that be?
-No. No?
-Not really.
You'll be summoned for questioning.
so thank you for your time.
-Which one of you called the police?
-It was me.
But it was before you found her.
How did you know something had happened?
No… Well… I've worked as a chef.
and Anders said that the stuff
that was leaking into the pot
felt like eggs.
Eggs coagulate when you heat them up.
and the same thing happens to blood.
so unless Camilla had cracked
a whole bucket of eggs
it could really only be one thing.
Bon appétit.
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk to me.
Hi. Ellen. It's me.
I don't know what to say. really but…
There's no one else
I can talk to about this.
I'm going after Waaler.
I know he shot you.
I'm going to get him.
I promise.
How long?
Since the day before the cabin murders.
And why did you wait this long?
I've… been a bit…
checked out.
You know. Møller doesn't think
that I know that he's protecting you.
I don't know if he's doing it
because you're his best detective.
or because he's the type of person
who brings home stray dogs. I don't know.
I'm not like that. Hole.
No.
Okay.
Well. go on.
Yes. While Narcotics were surveilling
Sverre Olsen's garage.
they took that photo
of Tom Waaler going inside.
They didn't see it was him.
the quality is too low.
but when Beate Lønn.
she's a so-called "super recognizer."
saw that picture.
she identified him as Tom Waaler.
This picture?
Yes. with 70% certainty.
When Ellen and I confronted Waaler.
he said that he wasn't there.
It wasn't him.
He said he was home alone at the time.
I've spoken to the police in Stockholm.
and to Interpol.
No one has any remarks regarding
Tom Waaler from his time there.
Do you have any proof at all
that he wasn't home?
No. but it's a little too coincidental
that Waaler appears out of the blue
at the cabin where Sverre Olsen is hiding.
and where both Olsen
and Ellen Gjelten end up dead.
Is that all you've got?
A coincidence?
Let's say that picture's Tom Waaler.
He got worried
and went to the cabin to kill Olsen.
so he couldn't testify.
And Ellen was
in the wrong place at the wrong time.
She tried to call me five times.
Forensics found evidence of a fight
around 100 meters away from the cabin.
There was a DNA match for Ellen.
but nothing on Olsen.
Her phone was turned off before she died.
Since then. no one has seen it.
He tortured Ellen inside that cabin
to imply a fight between her and Olsen.
That's Tom Waaler.
This is the moment where I should be
throwing you out of my office. Hole.
Not only because you don't have a case.
You realize that what you're telling me
is an extreme allegation
against one of your own colleagues?
If I give you the authority
to investigate Waaler.
it'll be on my head if you're wrong.
I'm sure you get that.
It'll be on your head if I'm right too.
Let me put it like this.
I am extremely concerned
with turning every stone.
So if you're planning to continue
working on this theory of yours.
you'll be doing it on your own.
You report to me.
Only to me.
This meeting never took place.
Is that acceptable for you. Hole?
It's acceptable.
Police Operations Center.
This is Detective Tom Waaler.
A colleague has been killed.
The perpetrator as well.
I had to shoot him in self-defense.
I'm in a cabin…
Hi. this is Ellen's voicemail. Talk to me.
I haven't found a fucking thing.
Not a fucking thing.
He…
He probably knows that I'm… watching him.
I don't think
I'm going to make any more promises.
Just like with… with Rakel.
I can't drag her into this shit.
Right?
You know--
You know that.
I can't promise a single thing.
I can't promise. just…
I can't…
Hey. talk to me.
Harry. where have you been?
Or…
I don't want to know.
I'm just calling to remind you
that Ellen's funeral is today.
You haven't forgotten?
No. of course not. boss.
What are you up to today?
I thought I'd go see Lucas.
-We're going to The Frogner Baths.
-Yeah. That's great.
Yeah.
Is Harry gonna visit again soon?
He has a lot going on right now. so I…
Okay.
But I'll call you. Okay?
-Bye.
You have one new message.
I wanted to inform you that someone
has observed Harry Hole drunk at work.
at a crime scene.
-So I assume you're going to deal with it.
-Oh. come on.
Shit.
Is that also logged?
Yes. one moment.
I'll get you this one too.
RECEPTION
Hello?
POLICE
Hey.
I'm Tom. You're Rakel's son?
You know my mother?
Yes. she worked here when you were little.
And… can I help you?
Yes. I was wondering
if you could give this to Harry?
What does he need it for?
Let himself in when he gets home late.
So he won't have to sleep alone.
You're really sweet.
But…
But you can give it to him yourself.
He's downstairs.
It would make him really happy.
There he is. Come on.
Oleg here has something he wants
to give you. Just give it to him.
It's okay. You can give it to him.
There.
What the fuck are you looking at?
Huh?
Hey.
Beer and dried biscuits and…
instant coffee?
Are you having a party?
Yeah.
Something like that.
There's that cop again.
Hey there.
I come bearing bad news.
Shit.
Do you have cancer?
No. it's some stomach shit. Fuck me.
Slow digestion. I guess.
It's a funny expression. slow digestion.
Digesting food takes
between 12 and 24 hours for everyone.
no matter what.
so it's not that your bowels are slow.
it's just that… it hurts more.
I came to tell you that it's over.
Are you breaking up?
I received a report that you
were intoxicated at work.
I've put my job on the line
too many times to save yours.
And it stops here.
Oh. well.
I've written out your resignation.
It's on Agnes Sjølid's desk.
The only thing missing is her signature.
You have no idea
how much it hurts to see you like this.
MURDER INVESTIGATION CHIEF
Book of Revelation. chapter 16.
"And the third angel poured out their bowl
into the rivers and springs of water.
and they became blood."
“Come. I will show you the judgment
of the great harlot.
who is lying in the water."
Open your eyes.
It's a simple pattern.
-Hello. Beate.
-Harry.
You're on speaker.
I'm here with a ballistics expert.
We found the weapon.
Oh yeah. where?
In a trash container.
not far from the apartment.
You were right. It is a pistol.
Make and number?
A Ceska.
The serial number is scratched off.
What about the scratches?
It's the same as almost everything
we're seizing at the moment.
And the pathologist found--
You… you can take it to Waaler.
I just remembered
that this is no longer any of my business.
Okay. Let's hope that…
Waaler can explain
the pathologist's findings.
Yeah. Bye.
No. hey…
Wait a minute…
Okay. fine. tell me.
Do you remember that Camilla Loen
had a swollen eyelid?
It wasn't swelling.
It was a small red gemstone.
cut in the shape of a star.
What do you think?
That it's none of my business.
Good luck.
There's that cop again.
Where is the other place?
It's the police again.
Short behind the ears. please.
Oh shit. it's you.
Good. looks like your memory is intact.
What's that?
A guy who exited Sverre Olsen's garage
right before you entered it.
I think you saw him.
and you realized that he was a cop.
Can you put down those shears?
-Okay.
-Good.
Roy. I'm going
to make this very easy for you.
I'm sure you're happy that I'm not a thug
coming to collect the drug money
that you owe. but…
I'm something worse.
I can pull you out in handcuffs.
Then. I'll make sure
there'll be a raid in your nursery.
They'll find those plants you're growing
in the back of that greenhouse.
That your mom thinks
is just some innocent stuff.
but that she and your dad definitely
will be prosecuted for.
All you need to do is to take
a little look at these pictures.
No…
I don't know who that is. but…
I did see him.
He's a cop. all right.
How did you know?
Just like you.
ID lanyard around your neck.
You guys could at least try
to make an effort hiding it.
Look at the next picture.
Was it him?
Roy Kvinsvik is absolutely sure
that it was Waaler he saw?
Yes.
Good work. Hole.
You know we'll need a witness testimony.
He doesn't want to meet at the station.
so I'll meet him at Schrøder today at 11.
Hello?
-Who was that?
-Nobody.
There he is.
Hole. this is police prosecutor Abildsø.
Yes. Harry.
Are you by yourself?
Yeah…
Roy Kvinsvik changed his mind.
Your witness changed his mind?
I've been thinking.
I told you it was that guy
because I thought
that was what you wanted to hear.
Now you don't have anything on me anymore.
I've told my parents
about the hashish plants.
And they've already burned them. so…
I don't want to lie for you.
So you've made the classic mistake
of pressuring a witness
to give a false statement?
Potato dumplings or plank steak. what…?
Let me be brief. but very clear. Hole.
I do not condone corrupt police officers.
But it is my responsibility
to keep the work ethics of this department
at an acceptable level.
The murder of Ellen Gjelten
has been solved.
and the case is hereby closed.
If you get near the case again.
I'll consider it a refusal to obey orders.
What do you say?
Potato dumplings.
I'm saying potato dumplings.
By all means.
Fuck.
How are you?
On a scale from nine to ten. nine.
Fuck it. give me another one.
The forensic evidence
at the crime scene shows
that Sverre Olsen shot
and killed Ellen Gjelten.
The Bureau of Investigation
of Police Affairs has also concluded
that the police officer
who arrived at the crime scene.
was acting in self-defense.
according to police regulations.
and tried to save a colleague's life
while greatly risking his own.
THANK YOU SO MUCH
Open your eyes.
It's a simple pattern.
A red guiding star.
A five-pointed devil's cross…
will show the way.
Harry!
Hello?
Is there any forensic evidence?
We've collected fingerprints and DNA
in the apartment.
but nothing that we can tie to the killer.
Did you find out
where the diamond came from?
We're working on it. but…
it seems unlikely that it was sold
through a Norwegian jeweler.
That could suggest a foreign perpetrator.
Yeah. okay. Thanks.
The last thing I heard you say was
that this was none of your business.
No. it isn't.
I had a dream about Camilla Loen
and that diamond you found.
In the old days. they put coins
on top of the eyes of the dead.
so that their souls would reach the realm
of the dead and not just hang around.
Yes. I know. Harry.
but I believe in science.
I don't believe in ghosts
and stuff like that.
When are you back?
I thought you said
you don't believe in ghosts.
Good night. Harry.
Good night.
Subtitle translation by: Trine Friis